Victory Ma & Sydnie Streek
Prof. Barbara Johnson
CSCI 263
11 May 2024
Final Report
This is a document with an explanation of how we have met the requirements for the final project. This is included in our GitHub repository.
Usability - Is your implementation done in a way that a user can navigate and use your website without any additional instruction? 
We believe that we have implemented our website simply and effectively. At the top of the homepage, we have a navigation bar that is labeled with each of the main demographics that we want to target. Furthermore, we have made it so that this navigation bar is present on each page so that the website is not confusing at all to click through. Therefore all five pages of our website are easily accessible for the average user. Everything that we want the user to see is within three clicks. Going on, impaired users will be able to use the tab key to navigate through the pages and access all available links as well. Moreover, we use a simple purple color scheme throughout all pages, which highly contrasts with the white text that we are using. All elements and text on each of the pages pass the 4.5 to 1 contrast test. Colorblind individuals should be able to navigate the website with ease. Lastly, the pictures and graphs that we used on each page are enlarged for visually impaired individuals.
Educational Value - Does your implementation effectively teach a user about your topic? Does this content make sense for the personas you have developed? 
We believe that our website effectively teaches the user about our topic. In order to reach each of the demographics that we wanted, we had pages labeled as “Parents & Guardians”, “Children & Teenagers”, and “Software Developers”. In essence, we believe that each of these three categories best represents the people who are most influenced by social media and mobile game applications. The page for each demographic is written in a manner that best suits the comprehension of the average individual in said demographic. Furthermore, there are multiple research articles and academic papers that are cited on each of the pages. For parents and guardians coming to our website, we made it a focus to explain the software design concepts that go into making the apps that they use on a daily basis. Furthermore, we wanted to highlight the possible negative impacts that devices may have on their children. We think it is important that parents know about concepts such as infinite scrolling and content algorithms so that they are able to make their best judgment when giving their children a smartphone or mobile device. For children and teenagers coming to our website, we wanted to communicate—in simple terms—the risks that are involved when they use their devices or log into their video games. We wanted to focus more on video games on this page because children and teenagers tend to play more games than any other demographic. Furthermore, the content that they could be exposed to could be harmful to their mental development or well-being. The three main categories we wanted to address included overusing social media, playing games with in-game purchases, and interacting with people online. We wanted to focus on looking at the statistics and data for software developers, as this audience already knows the concepts that go into making applications. Therefore, we would want to highlight the social impact of the designs and products they help create. This page aims to look more in-depth into the ways that social media algorithms can possibly be detrimental to its users. On the same note, we also want to make them aware of how common mobile device addiction is and how algorithms and designs contribute to the problem. It is therefore important for us to highlight common practices that are used within the industry that potentially negatively impact society as a whole. This page is intended to be more argumentative in trying to convince the average developer to use more ethical practices in their programming.
Interactivity - Does your implementation have interactive elements that enhance the user experience?
We have multiple interactive elements that enhance the user experience on each of the pages. On the homepage, we have clickable icons that allow the user to learn more about the most common mobile applications in the world. Each icon (YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, Twitter, Snapchat) sends the user to an official informational page that gives them an idea of the goals of the mobile app. This is intended to be a starting point for individuals who are not too familiar with various mobile apps. On our ‘About’ page, we have a feedback form that users are able to fill out in order to let us know what is good or bad about the website. Users can put their name, email address, and phone number into the boxes. They are also able to indicate whether they thought the website was helpful or not, along with a text box that gives them the opportunity to tell us why they chose their selected option. Unfortunately, this feature does not fully work, as GitHub pages do not allow for PHP. We also included ‘Back to top’ buttons that allow the user to easily go back up to the top of the page. Lastly, we also have a quiz that the children and teenagers can interact with in order to test themselves on the information that they learned from our webpage.
Aesthetics - Is your implementation visually appealing?
We wanted our website to be easily accessible while also being visually appealing. We used white text on a dark background for all our pages. For our homepage, we have a colorful banner that conveys to the user that this website intends to talk about social media and mobile applications. We also have horizontal line elements that intend to break up the monotony of the paragraphs and the overall aesthetics of the pages. Furthermore, we included various graphs that display and communicate various statistics related to the topics we are discussing. Heading elements are used to indicate sections of each of the pages.